Since Freelancer Mod Manager has a limited width for the mod options name sections, there is insufficient space for extra descriptions. 
Hence we've compiled a list of more comprehensive descriptions and explanations for the mod options here:



Single Player ID Code:
You know when each time an NPC talks to you in-game, they call you Freelancer Alpha 1-1? 
This is your ID Code. Well, this mod gives you the ability to change your ID Code in Single Player! Just select any option you like and the NPCs will call you by that.


Fix clipping with 16:9 resolution planetscapes:
Since Freelancer was never optimized for 16:9 resolutions, there are several inconsistencies with planetscapes that occur while viewing them in 16:9, such as clipping and geometry issues.
This mod gives you the option of fixing this, as it adjusts the camera values in the planetscapes so the issues are no longer visible in 16:9 resolutions.
Disable this option if you play in 4:3.

Add 16:9 Advanced Widescreen HUD:
This option adds two new useful widgets to your hud. 
Next to your contact list, you will have a wireframe representation of your selected target.
Next to your weapons list, you will have a wireframe of your own ship.
The Advanced Widescreen HUD makes great use of the unused space, hence we recommend it for all players who play in 16:9.
If you play in 4:3 however, disable this option. It only works for widescreen resolutions.


Add improved reflections:
This option speaks for itself. It makes the way light reflects off ships, bases, etc, a lot nicer.


Start Screen resolution:
By default, the "Freelancer" splash screen you see when you start the game has a resolution of 1280x960.
This makes it appear stretched and a bit blurry on HD 16:9 resolutions.
Setting this to a higher resolution makes the splash screen look nice and sharp. Hence we recommend setting this option to your monitor's native resolution.
Selecting the "None" option completely removes the start screen if you like it that way.
NOTE: A higher resolution option may negatively impact the game's startup speed.


Main Menu Freelancer logo resolution:
When you view the game's main menu, you will see a "Freelancer" logo on the top-left of your screen.
This logo has a resolution of 800x600 by default, which makes it look stretched and pixelated/blurry on HD 16:9 monitors.
Setting this to a higher resolution with the correct aspect ratio makes the logo look nice and sharp and not stretched-out. Hence we recommend setting this option to your monitor's native resolution.
Selecting the "None" option completely removes the Freelancer logo if you like it that way.
NOTE: A higher resolution option may negatively impact the game's startup speed.


Fix Windows 10 compat issues:
Windows 10 users may experience the following compatibility issues while playing (vanilla) Freelancer:
- Broken lighting in many base interiors
- Missing glass reflections

We've included a Legacy DirectX wrapper named dgVoodoo2 in this mod, which serves as an optional patch that fixes all of these issues.
However, we have disabled this option by default as you may experience, crashes, bugs, and stutters while using it. So please try it at your own risk.

If you experience a refresh rate/fps lock to 60 while using this patch, please refer to the wiki for a solution: https://github.com/BC46/freelancer-hd-edition/wiki


Fix missing text and button misalignments on 4K resolutions:
Many 4K resolution users who play Freelancer have reported missing HUD text and misaligned buttons in menus.
This option fixes these issues by simply applying the changes mentioned here: http://adoxa.altervista.org/freelancer/widescreen.html
Enable this option only if you're going to play Freelancer in 4K (3840x2160) or higher.